---

title: Git Basic
cover: github-logo-text-horizontal.png
date:   2015-05-10 09:59:00
category:
  - Technical
---



### *Step 1* : 
Create an account in [Github](https://github.com/)
### *Step 2* : 
Create a repository(it is Basically, a folder which will contain and track your project)
### *Step 3* : 
Create a folder in your local computer where you want to keep your project with the same name of repository in step2.
### *Step 4* :  
Through Terminal Dive into the folder you just created then run this command 
```
$ git clone <Repo Path> .
```
It will copy and paste all the files or folder into your local system. where replace variable with 
`SSH clone URL or Http clone url` 
which you have to copy from 
`https://github.com/\<userName\>/\<repositoryName\>` 
bottom right of the page and dot signifies copy all files and folder of the repository in github to folder name same as repository in local system
### *Step 5* : 
Initially it will have three file .gitignore, LICENSE, README.md . Now, in this folder you can create, delete, modify your project.
### *Step 6* : 
Afer modifying any thingin in local folder named same as repository run 
```
$ git status 
```
It will show you the file which you have added, deleted, modified  
### *Step 7* : 
This will add your local changes 
```
$ git add .
```
wait wait.. you will not get any this in online github repository.
### *Step 8* : 
```
$ git commit -m 'what ever message you want you can but it's beter to give what are the changes you made this may vary for different commit'
```
This command will commit all changes whit you just added in previous step.
### *step 9* : 
```
$ git push -u origin master
```
This command will finally push all the changes you made in local to github repository where origin is master branch.And 
```
$ git push origin gh-pages
```
this command push all the changes you made in local to github repository where origin is gh-pages branch. A github repository can have `branch:master or branch:gh-pages`.Every time you run this command it will ask you user credential which you signed in with.
###*Step 10* : 
For one time user credential run $ `git remote set-url origin git@github.com:<Username>/<Project>.git` 
### *step 11* : 
```
$ git pull origin master
```
This is actually fetch github repository and merge with local folder named as repository name . this will generate conflict if you haven't commited you local changes yet. To remove that conflict you can do manually or follow step 13 and step 14.
### *Step 12* : 
To see the file which is having the conflict run in terminal 
```
$ grep -nr "<<<<<" *
```
### *Step 13* : 
```
$ git reset HEAD #Reset in history 
```
### *Step 14* : 
```
$ git stash #To remove local changes
```